One of the greatest things about object oriented programming is that we can leverage our objects or
classes that way.
We don't have to repeat the same classes to create other classes.
So there is this concept called inheritance, which allows us to inherit or mirror other classes right
that way.
For instance, if I know that one class has the base properties as well as behaviors as the one class
that I want to create next, I can't inherit those properties behaviors and still add my own behaviors
and properties if need be.
So let's look at this class, right?
Very similar to what we have created car class.
We pass in our first constructor here, primary constructor column and model and pass as many as we
want, right?
We have some functions, some class functions, speed and have drive.
Now, imagine that we want to create a truck, if you think of a truck, a truck in a real world is
a car in a way.
So if I see a truck, truck has common attributes and behaviors.
So in this case, truck could inherit from car.
I think this as an example, this concept in program, it's called inheritance, so we're going to inherit
properties and behaviors of our parent class in this case.
Car would be the parent class in truck, the child class.
Let's go ahead and take a look and coat how this would work.
Now, before we move forward, I still have our class car here.
I want to show you something every class that we create in codling actually inherits from a class called
any vehicle like this, unless they're calling to say that inherits.
And I can say any what is any well, any is a root of Kotlin class hierarchy.
So every class has any as its super class, as it as its parent class.
But because as it says here, every class has inherited from any.
We don't have to specify any whenever we create a class because it is already implied.
I have something that you may have observed.
So you notice that before we said something like this, whenever we wanted to create, let's say a variable
would say foul over.
I'm going to just use vowel because that's usually the recommended way and I'm going to say name.
What do we do?
Is in fact a C here says name a string hit.
Enter.
I can say call in string.
What does that mean?
Huh, interesting.
This, you may have imagined, could mean.
I'm not sure that's just speculation here.
So to get you thinking it could mean that name as a type.
It's actually going to be inheriting from this string.
Class is a true if you hover over, you see.
This is a public final class string.
Interesting.
That means then when we creating all when we are creating variables and creating the types of those
variables string, in this case, that means they were inheriting from string.
So name now is indeed a string.
That's why we can say name a search in that and we can access all of these methods.
These are methods that come from our string class.
Now, let's say command click or in this case, control be for Windows or Linux.
You can see that's what you know.
This can sound very daunting.
It's a lot of code that we may not understand.
But one thing I want you to look at it says public class string, of course, inherits some other classes
there, but that's not a problem.
But look what we have here.
We have a few methods or functions in this case, right?
Public operator fun plus all of these functions and overrides and so forth.
We'll talk about those.
All of these are available to us because these is a class.
And if we inherit from this class, it means we have access to that plus length.
Get some sequence compared to we can access those if I say name because a string, as we said, say
plus c there is plus there is to string.
There's length there's get in many others.
OK, compared to and so forth.
So these are methods that come, of course, with our string class.
That was something that I want you to think about.
All right.
So let's go ahead and create yet another class here.
Class, call this truck like this.
Now, if I want truck to inherit from car, I would have to say, call in, say, car like that.
Now we're going to have an issue you have over is going to say, well, changed constructor invocation
and also make.
So there's a lot of things here, say to add constructor and make heart open.
The first thing we need to do is all classes in Kotlin are closed quote, meaning we can't really inherit
from them.
So we'll have to say open like that for it to be able to for anybody to be able to inherit from that
class.
If you have over, you will see that we no longer have that issue because the class is open.
However, we have other problems because here it says we need to change the constructor invocation.
Let's click here and see what happens.
Aha.
And there we go.
We still have a problem, however, over what's going to happen here at constructor parameter color.
And we continue doing that.
But let's go back to what we really want to make sure to do.
So track, we're going to create a constructor, right?
A primary constructor.
Such and then we're going to just say, inherits Colin from car like this.
But the problem here is that will inherit the truck from car.
As you see here, this click here.
We're going to say we will have to add constructor parameters for from car string because we are inheriting
from this class car, which contains these two parameters.
OK, so I'm going to click there and there you have it.
So now truck will inherit from car, but he will have to.
When we inherited from car, that means we have to, of course, have to get in, pass along the color
and model.
So check this out when you come here, take truck found truck is equal to a truck like this, and you
can see, of course, that we have to pass color magenta.
What a beautiful color and a model.
I'm going to say if.
16, I think something like that, I don't know a lot about trucks or cars, but that's fine.
We're just trying to figure things out here.
All right.
One, they print.
Now that I have my truck, I can say, truck like this dot and I can invoke drive and the speed, as
well as model and color because we have inherited from car notice in our truck class here closes down.
We don't even have a body.
We don't have a body.
We could put something, but because we are inheriting we could just not have a body.
In fact, actually a class could just not have a body, and that's totally fine and we'll talk about
data classes and so forth.
But in this case here, notice that I don't have a body where I'm actually creating or have created
speed or drive.
Yet I have access to drive, speed, model color, all the properties and the behaviors.
OK, that's real good.
So if I say drive, for instance.
What's going to happen?
I'm going to run.
OK, so we have magenta is not green, right?
Because we have this initial it to block that was just comedy.
So that's fine.
It works fine.
And Excelsior Drive, vroom.
However, this drive room here is indeed drive from the same drive room from our car.
What if you wanted to make the drive to be a little bit different in this case, because the way a track
would drive, we can assume it's going to be different than the way a car would drive.
How do we do that?
How do we customize this truck?
So it actually becomes its own entity, even though it inherited all of the properties from our car
class?
Well, there's this concept called overwriting.
So I'm going to put a body here.
I'm going to override like this.
OK, what is there going to be overwriting?
I'm going to override the speed function.
Now we have a problem here.
When we override, we should be overwriting what already is there, but we have no access to speed to
override it because when we inherit, we actually have to also stay open to make sure that this is accessible
for us to override.
So let's go back here.
I'm going to say override fun speed like this.
If you hover over is going to say change function signature to find the speed, right?
Because that's what we are supposed to pass, OK?
Speed, mach speed.
And I can also go and override another function.
But is that going to be possible?
This drive, which is the one that I really want to override?
We're not going to be able to override this because yes, you guessed it will stay open for us to be
able to override.
So I'm going to say it can override.
Now we have options there to just click override like that.
Now something happened here.
When we use our code suggestion here, it's called super to drive.
What is this Super R?
If you highlight super, it's highlighting what car super.
In this case, it's calling the super class, which is the parent class.
It's saying here initially, if we don't change the behavior here, it's going to go and call this super
to drive the method from our car, the parent class, which in this case is not what we want.
What we want is to have our own unless it print, end and say vroom and like this like a truck.
Look what's going to happen if we run this time?
Remember before we just had drive from drive from this last one is indeed from our truck object.
OK.
I'm going to run this once again.
You'll see the difference.
Aha.
Now when we say truck, we create the object truck.
We invoke the drive method or function.
What's going to happen?
It's not going to go ahead and call this drive method.
Function here.
We are going to override it, that's why we have this keyboard override the function, and it's going
to call its own track function inside here.
Can I call this from like a truck?
And this, my friends, is that revolutionary because now we have a lot of flexibility of what we can
do.
In fact, we did that with drive.
We can do the same thing with speed.
I can just say something like this print, Elon.
Full speed is equal to men.
Speed times, max speed.
I'm like, There's just to be a little bit dramatic.
Truck full speed.
And I'm going to say full speed as such.
Now if I go off here and say truck that full speed or I said speed, right?
The minimum speed like that of 20 OK and max speed of 90.
What's going to happen is go ahead and run.
It's going to say vroom like a truck truck, full speed 18:00.
And of course, we still have car information and everything.
And there you have it.
So we in this case, we inherited from car, but most importantly, we've changed a few things.
The behaviors of our truck should obviously be different from the behaviors of our parent or superclass
car.
OK?
As another exercise it, think of a Real-World example that you can use to create this inheritance,
this connection.
Right?
So always think in terms of nouns.
So you could create a class called book, have properties and behaviors, and then you can have a magazine
inherit from book is really a magazine is a type of book, if you will.
All right.
Go ahead and give that a try and I'll see you next.